Disruptive Technologies – Case Study of Square 

Overview and Origin
Disruptive technologies Financial Services Industries are fast rendering the traditional banking systems irrelevant. The “normal” banking system is being rendered inefficient and obsolete by the new wave of FINTECH companies springing up on daily basis. Creative financial solutions largely driven by these new fast paced “on-the-go” technological developments are replacing the traditional “brick and mortal” system of money transactions. 1According to Bill Gates (1994), he said “Banking is necessary, banks are not”. Advancement in technology is making the banking industry to develop at a faster rate with laser beam focus on efficiency, transparency, and better customer experience. The current digital revolution is disrupting the way people do banking transactions and which is largely influence by the evolving customer needs, behaviours, expectations, and the desires for better customers experience. Customers now expect an anytime, anywhere personalised users experience – i.e. banking everywhere, not necessarily at a bank!”
 
One of the major companies in the Mobile Payment System, Point of Sale and Financial Services Industries - FINTECH is Square, Inc. was founded on the February 14, 2009 in St. Louis, Missouri, U.S., but changed its name to Block Inc. on  December 10, 2021. 3Square is a merchant services aggregator and mobile payment company that aims to simplify commerce through technology.  According to 4Wikipedia, the original inspiration for Square occurred to Jack Dorsey in 2009 when Jim McKelvey (a friend of Dorsey) was unable to complete a $2,000 sale of his glass faucets and fittings because he could not accept credit cards. According to Jack Dorsey, Founder and CEO of Square, Co-creator and Co-founder of Twitter, “Square is rethinking payments and money, which have been around for thousands of years and will want to take the mechanical burden out of the process. The two friends - Jack Dorsey and Jim McKelvey co-founded the company – SQUARE INC. (Now Block Inc.) The company launched its first platform in 2010 and has been traded as a public company on the New York Stock Exchange since November 2015. The company currently operates in the United States, Canada, Australia, Japan, United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Spain among others.

5The company has several other businesses such as Cash App (The easy way to send, spend, bank, and invest. Cash App is a mobile app that allows monetary transfers both among users and between users and businesses), Afterpay (a buy-now-pay-later service), Weebly(a web hosting services), Tidal ( a subscription-based music, podcast and video streaming service that offers audio and music videos), TBD (the company’s open source platform enables developers to build products and services on technologies),  Spiral (Bitcoin investment and making it more than an investment) among others; the company keeps developing new innovative products and service offerings to the benefits of its customers within the highly competitive Fintech industry. 

In addition to the above the company also invested about 1% of their total assets ($50 million) in Bitcoin (4,709 bitcoins) in October 2020 (Oliver Effron. "Square just bought $50 million in bitcoin". CNN. Retrieved 2020-10-22) citing Bitcoin's "potential to be a more ubiquitous currency in the future" as their main reason for the huge investment. Square also acquired an additional $170 million worth of Bitcoin (approximately 3,318 bitcoins) in February 2021(Bursztynsky, Jessica, 2021-02-23. "Square buys $170 million worth of bitcoin" CNBC. Retrieved 2021-03-02), thereby bringing Square's total holdings to almost $500 million in Bitcoin (total approximately 8,027 bitcoins)6. 

Square’s Funding Structure and Investment/Acquisition
The company has been largely funded by the combination of both Equity and Debt financing. Square currently has substantial share capital raised from the Primary and Secondary Market as well as from the Angel Investors. 7The total money raised at Initial Public Offer(IPO) dated Nov 19, 2015 was  $243M, with market valuation of $2.9B at IPO(IPO Share Price at $9.00) while  Square has raised a total of $601.2M in funding over 10 rounds including Post-IPO Equity Shares, Convertible Notes and Debt Financing from 43 investors including GGV Capital and Omega Venture Partners which are the most recent investors. Square’s other investors include Omega Venture, JP Morgan, Access Technology Ventures, Sapphire Ventures, Goldman Sachs, Silicon Valley Bank, Morgan Stanley among others. Their latest funding was raised on May 5, 2021 from a Post-IPO Equity round. Square is registered under the ticker NYSE:SQ (i.e Square is listed as Square, Inc. on NYSE as SQ).
As of September 10th, 2021, it had a market value equity of $115.532 billion and an enterprise value equity of $115.22 billion. (Finance. yahoo) The company’s revenues for the 2021 financials amounted to $15.931 billion, representing a 170.72 percent increase Y/Y with a net income of $0.574 billion, representing an 89.29 percent increase Y/Y.
On the other hands, Square has made about 21 investments with more in the offing. Their most recent investment was on Jun 14, 2022, when Flip raised $55M. Other include Stem Disintermedia, Kyash, TRM Labs, Yellow Cards, Sothern Bancorp, OURA, Satispay, Transparent Financial System etc. Square has also made 2(two) diversity investments. Their most recent diversity investment was on Apr 18, 2022, when Stem Disintermedia raised $20M. 
The company has also made about notable 4 exits (or divestments) from the companies it invested in such as Mezi, Emailage, and Neumob.

Business Activities & Business Model
Square works for Individuals and businesses including retail and large firms, having developed financial technology solutions to replace the outmoded traditional tools that wouldn’t deliver real value to the customers on a real time, fast paced and efficient manner. The company has also gradually expanded into software and started building integrated, omnichannel solutions – to help sellers sell online, manage inventory, run a busy kitchen, book appointments, engage loyal buyers and hire and manage staff. The company has embedded financial services tools at the point of sale, so merchants can access a business loan and manage their cash flow all in one place – a one-stop financial services solution. 
8Whether the sale is at Brick-and-mortar location, On-the-go, At-an-event, Through a Square Online site, Through pay links and buy buttons, Through sent invoices etc., and payments taken to phones, tablets, computer or square one terminal, the company is able to support businesses in a unique way. The company also provide a free Magstripe(Magnetic Stripe) readers for her clients for use as Reatil Stores Loyalty Cards, Hotel Key cards, Staff Access Cards 
 
https://www.slideshare.net/patrickpijl/how-square-is-disrupting-banks/9-Business_Model_Case_StudySQUARE 
	
Specific financial problem SQUARE is trying to solve
The following are the specific financial problems SQUARE is trying to solve:

	How to accept credit card payments easily and conveniently at the point of sale (POS) without paying prohibitively expensive merchant services fees and without carrying around any more complicated equipment other than your mobile phone.

	How to encourage contactless payments at the point of sale to keep things touch free.

	10Next business day transaction settlement? Seeing transfers in the seller’s bank account as soon as the next business day is one of the notable financial problems Square is trying to solve.

	Making card processing simple? Square accepts Visa, Mastercard, American Express and Interac, all with clear pricing and no surprise or hidden fees.


	Accessibility to card-based payments specially made for individuals and businesses? “Square was established to give every business owner an easier way to take card payments. The company has built a lot more tools since. From small projects to large companies, Square has helped businesses of all sizes and types succeed on their own terms”.

	Building flexibility into the running of business by the owners? This is achieved by adapting tools that will serve the needs of the business owners hence the custom-made service offering the company has introduced. 

	Setting up a free online store that syncs with customer’s inventory and social media? This is to help meet customers wherever they shop.

	Helping every size of business succeed.
 
https://www.slideshare.net/BessieChu/square-payments-class-presentation



The promise to the Customers:

The following are some of the promises of Square to the teeming customers:
	To help every size and types of business succeed on their own terms. 

	To give every business owner an easier way to take card payments.

	For the customers run it their way and grow with the tools provided by Square.

	For the customers to have the freedom to choose by working seamlessly with hundreds of third-party technologies to streamline the way the customers like to work and save their time. Plus, they only ever pay for what they need.
	To set up a free online store that syncs with customer inventory and their social media – to help meet customers wherever they shop.
	Connect local sellers with buyers everywhere by signing up and then get free magstripe reader or buy $10 Squa(Red) reader and fight AIDS in Africa through the donation of 97.25% to Global Fund to Fight Aids.

	To the Sellers – Selling made easy. Affordable tools to start, run and grow your business.
To the Buyers – A simple and magical way pay. Payment is automatic.

Pricing System

Square pricing system is easy to understand, simple to comprehend and fast enough to deliver value to the customer. Aside larger business with Custom Pricing, a flat charge of 2.75% is charged on all swiped or online sales transactions while 3.5% +15cent is charged on manually entered transactions. There are no hidden charges and any additional charges aside from these standard charges. There are no sign-up fees, activation, cancellation, and bank routing fees while one rate charge is applicable to all major credit cards without exception – Visa, Master, American Express, discover etc. i.e the same rate is pay per swipe, online or keyed-in transactions.

Product and Services

11The company’s product line entails several hardware devices, including Chip & Swipe Reader, Square Stand, and card readers for iPhone and Android. A real game-changer was Cash App, which facilitates peer-to-peer cash transactions. Square’s innovation in payment technologies has significantly increased the adoption of mobile payments.

The following are some of their core products and services offering: 
Commerce -Sell in person, online and anywhere customers do business by offering POS hardware, Point of Sale, Payment processing, On-line store, Invoices, Virtual terminal, Online checkout & all on-line solution

Customer – Drive business with marketing, client bookings, gift cards and loyalty programs 

Financial – manage cashflows and get access to funds instantly. Issue business loans, square cards and ensure instant transfer of funds.

Team Management Solutions to run the team efficiently with timecards and permission.

Development solutions – by connecting third-party apps or build custom solutions (Developer APIs), App marketplace.

Company's intended customer and the market size of these customers

The target customer segment for Square is broad. As of 2020, more than 64 million businesses use Square to facilitate credit card payments with their main customers having businesses with annualized gross payment volume of less than $125,000. Square provides custom solutions for both individual and business designed to meet individual and business needs or requirements in a unique way. Whatever is the business model or operation – retail, professional services, transportation, leisure & entertainment(events), food and drink including Quick or Full-Service Restaurants, Charities, Education, health care delivery or even for casual use. Within each of the business area, focus is placed to virtually every business category. For instance, within the Professional Service business area, we have marketing/advertising, Nanny services, notary services, cleaning services, photography, printing services, real estate, software development, accounting, legal services, design, interior services, consulting, childcare etc.

According to 12enlyft.com, the following statistical information is worthy of note:

	Of all the customers that are using Square, a majority (84%) are small (<50 employees), 3% are large (>1000 employees) and 12% are medium-sized.

	Of all the customers that are using Square, a majority (85%) are small (<$50M), 0% are large (>$1000M) and 0% are medium-sized.

	Looking at Square customers by industry, we find that Restaurants (15%) and Retail (10%) are the largest segments.

	80% of Square customers are in United States and 6% are in Canada.


Some of the companies that use Square including their market sizes and the company size are detailed below:

Company	Website	Country	Revenue	Company
Masonicare Corporation
masonicare.org	USA	10M-50M	200-500
TaskRabbit, Inc
taskrabbit.com	USA	10M-50M	50-200
SAMARITANS PURSE
samaritanspurse.org	USA	200M-1000M	1000-5000
CONFIDENTIAL RECORDS, INC.
confidentialrecordsinc.com	USA	0M-1M	1-10
Blackfriars Group
blackfriarsgroup.com	UK	1M-10M	10-50

Square Market Share and Competitors in Point Of Sale (POS) - In the Point Of Sale (POS) category, Square has a market share of about 35.4%. 


Other major and competing products in this category include: 

13The following are Square’s competing products as highlighted in 10 Biggest Square Competitors and Alternatives by Marketing Tutor.Net

ShopKeep is a cloud-based POS system that offers three plans; you can choose whatever fits the need of your business. From Basic Plan (starts at $69/month) to Essential Plan to Advanced Plan (goes up to $179/month).

LightSpeed – a feature-rich point-of-sales system that caters to the need of retailers and restaurants. Do you have a growing store that has outgrown Square’s management tools? It’s probably the time you need to switch to LightSpeed. Not only does it offer advanced features such as e-Commerce integration, CRM, order and inventory management tools but customer loyalty and marketing campaigns.

Clover is a POS system that is specifically tailored to meet the needs of retailers and restaurants. The POS system offered by the Clover is highly customizable and offers other advanced features as well

QuickBooks is one of the prominent plays in the game of small businesses. Intuit GoPayment is it’s one of the major contributions to meet the ever-growing needs of mobile POS options.By using GoPayment Card Reader and Intuit GoPayment app, you can turn your smart devices into a fully functional POS system.

SumUp is a third-party payment processor that might not provide you with as many features as Square does.

PayPal Here is one of the many heavy-hitting competitors of Square that allows business owners to accept credit cards using smartphones or tablets

Shopify is one of the leading eCommerce giants existing in the market. It offers a complete business solution that offers you all you need to sell products both offline and online.

The company offers multiple packages catering to the needs of businesses of all sizes. From Lite to Basic to Regular to Advance to Plus – with all of them, you have access to a payment gateway from both your business website and social media accounts.
Stripe is a hub of point-of-sales solutions that offer seamless integration with websites and mobile apps. Perhaps it’s the only and most prominent competitor of Square and is used by large businesses including Amazon, Shopify, Google, and many more.
Payment Depot is one of the strong competitors of Square that works on a subscription-based model.


What solution does this company offer that their competitors do not or cannot offer? (What is the unfair advantage they utilise?)

Square is a free point-of-sale (POS) system and payment processor many small businesses use because it's an affordable, all-in-one solution. Though it once dominated the market, many Square competitors now offer comparable products and services.

Square has some of the most valuable data in the world
It has data on how retailers order inventory. It has data on how merchants pay their employees, and how those employees spend that money. It has data on when stores are busy and when they're not. It has data on what questions its customers need answers too.


Technologies SQUARE Inc. is currently using, and how are they implementing them? 
14Siftery currently tracks 132 software products used by Square, as reported by employees and vendors, or discovered by our team.(www.squareup.com ).
Square uses 75 active technology products and services including HTML5, Google Analytics, and Google Fonts, according to G2 Stack. 

15Square is actively using 47 technologies for its website, according to BuiltWith. These include Viewport Meta, IPhone / Mobile Compatible, and Google Font API. 
According to TechStacks (https://techstacks.io/stacks/square/) Technologies used by Square include:
Programming Languages
	  -  a dynamic, open-source programming language with a focus on simplicity and productivity. It has an elegant syntax that is natural to read and easy to write.
 https://www.ruby-lang.org by Yukihiro Matsumoto

	  Java is the foundation for virtually every type of networked application and is the global standard for developing and delivering embedded and mobile applications, games, Web-based content, and enterprise software (https://www.java.com) by Oracle
Client Libraries
  Ember.js is built for productivity. Designed with developer ergonomics in mind, its friendly APIs help you get your job done - fast. ( http://emberjs.com by Tilde)
HTTP Server Technologies
 Jetty provides a Web server and javax.servlet container, plus support for SPDY, WebSocket, OSGi, JMX, JNDI, JAAS and many other integrations.( http://eclipse.org/jetty/by The Eclipse) Foundation
Databases and NoSQL Datastores
	  PostgreSQL is a powerful, open source object-relational database system. It has more than 15 years of active development and a proven architecture that has earned it a strong reputation for reliability, data integrity, and correctness. It runs on all major operating systems, including Linux, UNIX (AIX, BSD, HP-UX, SGI IRIX, Mac OS X, Solaris, Tru64), and Windows. It is fully ACID compliant, has full support for foreign keys, joins, views, triggers, and stored procedures (in multiple languages). http://www.postgresql.org/by PostgreSQL
	  MySQL is the world's most popular open-source database. Whether you are a fast growing web property, technology ISV or large enterprise, MySQL can cost-effectively help you deliver high performance, scalable database applications.  https://www.mysql.com/by Oracle
	  The Apache Hadoop software library is a framework that allows for the distributed processing of large data sets across clusters of computers using simple programming models. It is designed to scale up from single servers to thousands of machines, each offering local computation and storage. Rather than rely on hardware to deliver high-availability, the library itself is designed to detect and handle failures at the application layer, so delivering a highly available service on top of a cluster of computers, each of which may be prone to failures. http://hadoop.apache.orgby The Apache Software Foundation
  Redis is an open source, BSD licensed, advanced key-value cache and store. It is often referred to as a data structure server since keys can contain strings, hashes, lists, sets, sorted sets, bitmaps and hyperloglogs. https://redis.io by Salvatore Sanfilippo
Here’s a list of other software products that Square is using internally:
•	Marketing: Criteo, Converto, Amazon SES, Mailgun, GoDaddy Professional Email, Google Tag Manager, Marketo, Postmark, Salesforce Marketing Cloud, Unbounce
•	Sales and Support: SurveyMonkey, Salesforce Desk .com
•	Product & Design: Adobe Typekit, Squarespace,
•	Analytics: Branch Metrics, Google Analytics, Heap
•	Productivity: Box, DocuSign, G Suite, Microsoft Office 365, Slack, Trello, Google Hangouts, ValiMail
Also, launching with Square’s developer’s tools means less time and resources on legacy’s systems due to the Full sandbox environment, Interactive API explorer, Live event monitoring, Backend SDKs: PHP, Ruby, Java, .Net, Python, Node and Secure payment SDKs: iOS, Android, React Native, Flutter
Square has 206,401 monthly app downloads, according to Apptopia. The most popular apps downloaded are Drag Racing: Streets, Sorel S, and Игровые автоматы - слоты, ARaymond, Guidor, JMAGBOOK, Шарики, Carton-Pâte Records, Caluire sentiers et belvédères etc.

221,297 sites that used this technology previously and 3,975 websites in Canada currently using Square. ( https://trends.builtwith.com/payment/Square )


Landscape

DOMAIN

The Domain of the financial industry SQUARE is in is Payment which include Bitcoin, Checkout Buttons, Currency, Donation, Paylater, Payment Acceptance, Payment processor. 
Payment is about payment services including payment back-end infrastructure, card issuing, merchant acquiring, mobile payment, seamless solutions and point of sales solution.

Trends and innovations of this Payment domain

The major trends and innovations of this Payment domain over the last 5–10 years include:

	Bitcoin technologies -One of the most successful implementations of blockchain technology. 16It is is a decentralized digital currency that can be transferred on the peer-to-peer bitcoin network. 
	Checkout Buttons technologies -Customers can use the dynamic checkout button to quickly buy the product they're viewing. They skip the cart and complete their payment with the checkout method displayed on the button (https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/online-store/dynamic-checkout)
	Currency technologies these include trading platform apps for retail investors using Android devices and allows for the trading of stocks, forex, futures, options, and other financial instruments from your mobile device and more.
	Donation - For many NPOs, technology is becoming a core part of their fundraising strategy. Non-profits are turning to tech to track donor info, accept donations online and in the field, automate marketing efforts, and so much more. (Top Nonprofit Technology and Tools to Increase Donations by Brittany Evans, August 6, 2019, https://ascentagroup.com/blog/top-nonprofit-technology-tools-increase-donations/
	Pay Later - point-of-sale installment loans that allow consumers to make purchases and pay for them at a future date. Consumers typically make an upfront payment toward the purchase, then pay the remainder off in a predetermined number of installments. https://www.investopedia.com/buy-now-pay-later-5182291
	Payment Acceptance -17Mobile payment apps are designed to free you from cash and credit cards by allowing you to digitally transfer funds to family, friends, or merchants.
	Payments Processor – this is a company that manages credit card transactions (6 top processors in Canada by Freshbooks, October 1, 2021

Other company within the same domains
Euro  ( Euro is currently the most popular technology in this category with 21,441,976 sites using this technology previously and 219,536 websites in Canada currently using Euro.), 

 	Pound Sterling(20,324,530 sites that used this technology previously and 20,756 websites in Canada currently using Pound Sterling),
 	  Visa,(5,968,768 sites that used this technology previously and 88,238 websites in Canada currently using Visa)
 	 Japanese Yen,
 	 PayPal, 
 	 MasterCard, 
 	 American Express,
 	  Stripe. 
 	 Apple Pay, 
 	 PayPal Button, 
 	 Google Pay, 
 	 Maestro, 

Others are:
 Shopify Pay,  Venmo,  Amazon Payments,  Klarna,  Braintree,  CardinalCommerce,  Fingerprint.js,  PayPal JavaScript SDK,  Recurly JS,  Bancontact,  Recharge Payments,  Worldpay,   Buy Me A Coffee

Companies like Square include

	 EBANX - 18Our values fueled our growth trajectory since our founding in 2012. Through them, we supported enterprise companies in growing their business in Latin America and have given millions of Latin American consumers access to international products and services.

	Paytron, 19PAYTRON is a global fintech based in Sydney, Australia. Paytron is a global treasury system for midsized & large businesses to manage their capital & payment workflows. 

	PayTabs - 20PayTabs is an innovative new economy payment processing and fraud prevention company built to provide buyers and sellers an advanced technology to pay and get paid. Being the first home grown company to provide seamless B2B ecommerce solutions to SME’s PayTabs become an early starter in the space termed “fintech”. Backed by private Saudi investment, PayTabs in-built and exported a full stack of game changing mobile applications, hospitality, governmental, education, airline, travel, transport, and biller solutions, to interlink the multi-billion-dollar enterprise market chain in the MENA region. By launching PayTabs SwitchOn, the real time, integrated, turnkey platform, PayTabs has claimed its rightful position as a global end-to-end payments’ solutions powerhouse. 

Results

Business impact of Square so far?
Square has succeeded in Revolutionizing Payment Processing. With its portable, pocket-sized credit card processing system has created a new economy that allows individuals and small businesses to accept credit card payments.
Square has been working to make the lives of entrepreneurs and small business owners easier. The corporation’s foundation can now execute everything from the point-of-sale structure to payroll to loans for small businesses. From pet care shops to salons, home repair technicians to healthcare practitioners and restaurants to retailers, Square is helping businesses to reach buyers online and in person and modernize their operations, helping them to find new and better ways of doing business. 
Although, Square is not the only mobile payment company but it also costs much less than the conventional credit card services. This has allowed an entire segment of merchants’ access to new customers beyond their local buyers.

At local level, Square helps Canadian business owners thrive by helping them operate more efficiently, better manage their cash flow and employees and connect with more buyers in-person, online and everywhere in between.

Core metrics that companies in this domain use to measure success and the performance of SQUARE based on these metrics

At Retail levels, the following Metrics (Key Performance Indicators, KPIs) can be used to measure the success of the companies in this domain: 
1. Sales per square foot - To calculate it, divide your sales by the store’s total square feet of sales space.
2. Conversion rate - To calculate it, divide the number of sales transactions by gross traffic.
3. Sell-through rate - To calculate this metric, use this formula: (number of units sold/beginning inventory) x 100.
4. Gross margin return on investment (GMROI)- The formula for figuring out your GMROI: gross margin/average inventory cost.
5. Stock turn/inventory turnover - The stock turn formula: cost of goods sold/average inventory.
6. Sales per category/employee/department/location/hour/Item
7. Sales from new vs. returning customers

At organizational level, the following 21KPIs can be used to measure the success of companies in this domain.
Metrics (KPIs)	SQUARE	VISA
Market cap	$37.6 billion	$333.2 billion
Forward P/E	115.96	28.15
Price/Sales	14.00	16.64
PE ratio	3.46	1.70

22In relation to competition, SQUARE is doing relatively well in terms of the Key Performance Indices highlighted above and particularly in the following qualitative and qualitative measurements:
•	Strong Brand Portfolio: Square has a robust portfolio of brands that it leverages to enter new markets and attract customers. Its brand portfolio includes Caviar, Square Market, and its main payments app, Cash App. The company successfully acquired and integrated other companies into its brand portfolio, setting a new standard for the entire industry.
•	Global Presence: Square is the leader in mobile payments innovation. It has a strong presence across United States, Canada, Ireland, The UK, Japan, Australia, with its headquarters in San Francisco. With its global presence, the company has the wider acceptance of its products among merchants globally.
•	Financial Performance: Despite a slow start upon its IPO, its financial performance has shown consistent growth. Square’s revenues have surged due to its diversified product line, increasing customer base, and robust revenue-generating initiatives. Specifically, the following financial measurements can be used to benchmark or measure the success of companies.



Key Metrics Data
	                 Title
	Price and Volume
•	Price Closing Or Last Bid
•	52 Week High
•	52  Week Low
•	52 Week Price Return (Daily)
•	Month To Date Price Return (Daily)
•	Year To Date Price Return (Daily
•	Per Share Data
	•	Dividend (Per Share Annual)
•	EBITD (Per Share TTM)
•	Free Cash Flow (Per Share TTM)
•	Valuation
	•	Dividend Yield
•	Price To Book (Annual)
•	P/E Basic
•	Financial Strength
	•	Quick Ratio
•	Current Ratio
•	Total Debt/Total Equity (Annual)
•	Payout Ratio (Annual)
•	Margins (%)
	•	Gross Margin (Annual)
•	Net Profit Margin % (Annual)
•	Operating Margin (Annual)
•	Free Operating Cash Flow/Revenue (TTM)
•	Management Effectiveness
	•	Return On Assets (Annual)
•	Return On Equity (TTM)
•	Return On Investment (Annual)
•	Asset Turnover (Annual)
•	Asset Turnover (TTM)
•	Inventory Turnover (Annual)
•	Net Income/Employee (Annual)
•	Receivables Turnover (Annual)
•	Growth(%)
	•	Revenue Growth Rate
•	EPS Growth Rate
•	Revenue Growth Rate
•	Book Value Growth Rate
•	Capital Spending Growth Rate
•	EBITDA CAGR
•	Free Operating Cash Flow CAGR
•	Total Debt CAGR
•	Net Profit Margin Growth Rate
•	Income Statement (Mil)
	•	Revenue (Annual)
•	EBITD (Annual)
•	Earnings Before Taxes (Annual
•	Net Income To Common (Annual)
•	Net Income Available To Common Normalized (Annual)
•	Earnings Before Taxes Normalized (Annual)
 
The performance of SQUARE relative to competitors in the same domain?

Square may have started as a simple mobile payment processing service for individuals, but it has become more. Square’s main advantage is the fact that its products are extremely versatile. The company allows users to accept credit card payments and provides inventory management, payroll through Vend, and POS systems for brick-and-mortar retail businesses.
Another unique advantage is that Square can sell directly to business owners, which is a huge plus. It gives Square complete control of its products and services, which enables it to offer reliable support. Furthermore, its flexible pricing model for small businesses makes it stand out against competitors with a fixed price plan.
The company keeps on updating its services and products to provide convenience to its customers. Square already has innovative services, including Square Payroll, Square Cash, and Square Capital. With the introduction of Square Banking, the company aims to provide seamless integration of payments and personal finance.
Its extensive product portfolio and capabilities make the company a well-rounded and competitive force in the payments industry. Moreover, its history of reaching out to businesses with its remarkable simplicity makes it an industry leader in the space compared to established companies such as PayPal.
Recommendations

* If you were to advise the company, what products or services would you suggest they offer? (This could be something that a competitor offers or use your imagination!)

In addition to the products and services SQUARE is currently offering, the following opportunities still exist in the marketplace for SQUARE:
•	Data Analytics Market: Square has an opportunity to improve its product portfolio and diversify the services offered. The company can leverage its data analytics technology for strategic collaborations and acquisitions to enter new markets such as healthcare, insurance, automobiles, and other related fields.
•	Gig Services Market: As the gig economy continues to grow, Square has an opportunity to expand its market base by exploring this market segment. It can acquire or form long-term partnerships with companies in this market segment to better compete with other companies.
•	Other includes Analytics and Tracking, Marketing Automation (Analytics and Tracking), Enterprise CMS, Conversion Optimizationm eCommerce Open Source, A/B Testing (Analytics and Tracking, Live Chat, Site Optimization (Analytics and Tracking). Product Recommendations (Analytics and Tracking), CRM (Analytics and Tracking), eCommerce SMB Solution etc. among others
* Why do you think that offering this product or service would benefit the company?

1.	It improves its product portfolio and diversify the services offered

2.	Data analytics technology for strategic collaborations and acquisitions can be leveraged for strategic collaborations and acquisitions to enter new markets such as healthcare, insurance, automobiles, and other related fields.

3.	Expansion of business niche and gain in the market share


* What technologies would this additional product or service utilise and the appropriateness of these solutions.

1) Predictive Analytics
Predictive analytics hardware and software solutions can be utilised for discovery, evaluation and deployment of predictive scenarios by processing big data. Such data can help companies to be prepared for what is to come and help solve problems by analyzing and understanding them.
2) NoSQL Databases
These databases are utilised for reliable and efficient data management across a scalable number of storage nodes. NoSQL databases store data as relational database tables, JSON docs or key-value pairings.
3) Knowledge Discovery Tools
These are tools that allow businesses to mine big data (structured and unstructured) which is stored on multiple sources. These sources can be different file systems, APIs, DBMS or similar platforms. With search and knowledge discovery tools, businesses can isolate and utilise the information to their benefit.
4) Stream Analytics
Sometimes the data an organisation needs to process can be stored on multiple platforms and in multiple formats. Stream analytics software is highly useful for filtering, aggregation, and analysis of such big data. Stream analytics also allows connection to external data sources and their integration into the application flow.
5) In-memory Data Fabric
This technology helps in distribution of large quantities of data across system resources such as Dynamic RAM, Flash Storage or Solid-State Storage Drives. Which in turn enables low latency access and processing of big data on the connected nodes.
6) Distributed Storage
A way to counter independent node failures and loss or corruption of big data sources, distributed file stores contain replicated data. Sometimes the data is also replicated for low latency quick access on large computer networks. These are generally non-relational databases.
7) Data Virtualization
It enables applications to retrieve data without implementing technical restrictions such as data formats, the physical location of data, etc. Used by Apache Hadoop and other distributed data stores for real-time or near real-time access to data stored on various platforms, data virtualization is one of the most used big data technologies.
8) Data Integration
A key operational challenge for most organizations handling big data is to process terabytes (or petabytes) of data in a way that can be useful for customer deliverables. Data integration tools allow businesses to streamline data across a number of big data solutions such as Amazon EMR, Apache Hive, Apache Pig, Apache Spark, Hadoop, MapReduce, MongoDB and Couchbase.
9) Data Preprocessing
These software solutions are used for manipulation of data into a format that is consistent and can be used for further analysis. The data preparation tools accelerate the data sharing process by formatting and cleansing unstructured data sets. A limitation of data preprocessing is that all its tasks cannot be automated and require human oversight, which can be tedious and time-consuming.
10) Data Quality
An important parameter for big data processing is the data quality. The data quality software can conduct cleansing and enrichment of large data sets by utilising parallel processing. These softwares are widely used for getting consistent and reliable outputs from big data processing.
In conclusion, Big Data is already being used to improve operational efficiency, and the ability to make informed decisions based on the very latest up-to-the-moment information is rapidly becoming the mainstream norm.
There’s no doubt that Big Data will continue to play an important role in many different industries around the world. It can definitely do wonders for a business organization. In order to reap more benefits, it’s important to train your employees about Big Data management. With proper management of Big Data, your business will be more productive and efficient.
References
1.	https://www.asianbankingschool.com/our-programmes/centre-for-digital-banking/digital-transformation-banking-is-necessary-banks-are-not 

2.	https://www.slideshare.net/patrickpijl/how-square-is-disrupting-banks/9-Business_Model_Case_StudySQUARE
3.	https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/square 
4.	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Block,_Inc.
5.	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Block,_Inc., https://www.tbd.website/ , https://tidal.com/ , https://spiral.xyz/ , https://cash.app/ , https://squareup.com/ca/en 
6.	.https://www.cnn.com/2020/10/08/business/square-bitcoin-crypto-investment/index.html; https://www.cnbc.com/2021/02/23/square-buys-170-million-worth-of-bitcoin.html
7.	https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/square/company_financials
8.	https://www.techtarget.com/whatis/definition/magnetic-stripe-reader-magstripe-reader), https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magnetic_stripe_card 
9.	https://squareup.com/ca/en/why-square 

10.	https://squareup.com/ca/

11.	(https://businesschronicler.com/competitors/square-competitors-analysis/ )

12.	( https://enlyft.com/tech/products/square)
19  https://www.paytron.com    

14.	https://www.marketingtutor.net/square-competitors-alternatives/
15.	https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-technology-stack-behind-Square
16.	https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/square/technology
17.	(https://www.tutorialspoint.com/bitcoin/bitcoin_blockchain_technology.htm) 
18.	https://www.identityforce.com/blog/most-secure-payment-methods
19.	https://business.ebanx.com/en/about-ebanx, https://blog.ebanx.com/en/

19  https://www.paytron.com    

21.	https://site.paytabs.com/en/about/
22.	https://squareup.com/ca/en/townsquare/6-retail-metrics-you-should-use-for-smarter-planning?country_redirection=true
23.	Better Buy: Square Inc. vs. Visa By John Ballard - Sep 30, 2018 at 4:03PM 
24.	https://www.fool.com/investing/2018/09/30/better-buy-square-inc-vs-visa.aspx
25.	10 Key Technologies that enable Big Data Analytics for businesses By Maruti Techlabs (https://towardsdatascience.com/10-key-technologies-that-enable-big-data-analytics-for-businesses-d82703891e2f)

